Bookpouch user manual

Bookpouch is an application which you can use to store, organize and synchronize all of your eBooks with your reader devices.
It allows you to divide your books into categories and series. You can also easily edit all information for each book.
Bookpouch is designed to be very light weight and therefore contains only basic functions for book handling and organization. 
If you need advanced features, such as the option to read the book directly in the application, or extensive format conversion support, then you are going to have something other than Bookpouch, for example Calibre.


Book organization
Bookpouch provides a main window in which all your added books are displayed in a list. To display details about any book, simply click on it.
You can add new books into the list by clicking on the plus icon, in the top left corner. To add more books at the same time, simply select them all in the file selection dialog. 
Bookpouch natively supports Mobi and Epub formats, therefore if you add any books in said formats, it will extract and fill in the informations (if any are available in the book file) about the books, automatically. 
You can add books in other formats  into the library as well, but apart from their file name, no information will be extracted from the files.
If you wish to remove a book from the list, click on it and then hit the Delete key on your keyboard. You can also select and remove multiple books by holding down the Ctrl key and clicking on the books you want to remove.

Book filtering
To display only books containing with a certain letter, or a string, right-click on the Name column name. A text field will appear and as you begin to type into it, the list of books will be automatically filtered, to match the searched string.
If you wish to view only books belonging to a certain series, simply left-click on the series in the book detail. You can also filter the Author and Publisher in the same way.
You can also use the advanced filter, which can be open by clicking the filter icon in the menu. Values entered in this filter are applied to the book list, when you click the "Apply filter" button.
The active filter can also be saved as a preset, for later use. Simply apply a filter to the book list like normally and then click the save button. This will open a text field, into which you can enter the filter preset name and then press the Enter key to save it.
The newly added preset will appear as a button under the menu and will allow you to filter the book list by a single click.
To remove an existing preset, right click it with your mouse.


Editing book details
To edit book details, click on the book you want to edit in the list and then click on the Edit button.
In the book edit window you can edit any information about the book by simply editing the fields. All changes are saved automatically, so there is no Save button present.
To change a book cover, left-click on the cover image. To remove a book cover, right-click on the cover image.
To add a new category associated with the book, type its name into the category field and then type , (comma) or ; (semicolon) to add it into the list. 
Red border around a category indicates, that it was added manually by a user. If the border is blue, then the category name was extracted from the book file itself. If you right-click on a blue category, it will be marked as manually added.
If you wish to remove the book, simply click on the Discard button.


Book synchronization 
You can use Bookpouch to synchronize you book files with your reader device. To do so, simply connect your device to the computer via USB and click Sync icon, two arrows in the top left, in the main window.
You can also set Bookpouch to automatically synchronize your books every time you connect your reader to your PC. To do so, check the AutoSync check box in the settings.
AutoSync only works when the Bookpouch application is running, in the settings you can set Bookpouch to start automatically with windows, minimized into a tray icon.
Not all books are synchronized, since your library can be very large, your probably don't want to sync every single book in there onto your device and for that reason only books marked for syncing will be uploaded into your reader.
To mark a book for syncing, simply click on the reader icon next to the book, in the book list (transparent icon = do not sync, solid icon = sync), or check the Sync check box in the book edit window.


Setting up book synchronization 
As there are many different reader models, you need to tell the Bookpouch which models are you using, so it can be detected and used properly.
To do so, go to settings and in the Reader drop down menu, select the reader which you are currently using. If you reader is not in the list, select the -other- option and fill in the required information manually.


Hotkey list (All hotkeys are used in the main window)
F5 - Reload book list
F12 - Delete the info queue (Useful, if you for example added several hundred new books into the library and 50 of them generated the "missing header" info dialog.)
Delete - Permanently delete all selected books
F - Toggle the Favorite setting for all selected books
S - Toggle the Sync setting for all selected books
D - Toggle both Favorite and Sync settings for all selected books
Shift + [Toggle hotkey]- When a toggle hotkey is used, while holding down the Shift key, the setting will be always turned to "on"
Ctrl + [Toggle hotkey] - When a toggle hotkey is used ,while holding down the Alt key, the setting will be always turned to "off"


